In this video you'll design the author pro theme home page with content and special widgets using the
You'll create the home page using some static content and some conditional widgets one which is a special
featured book widget that comes with the author pro plugin by the end of this video you'll have a complete
First let's get started by gathering all the tools we need to get started customizing the home page
for this author pro site that we're building right here.
First of all I do have my rolling over author pro or the name of my site here and right clicking on
That's what I have right here with our original parallax pro widgets configured inside of some of the
widget areas for the home page here as well as the footer.
We're going to be changing these over and making this home page of the author pro site look like the
So I also have the demo site opened from Studio press demo dot studio press dot com slash author.
each of these pieces of the site contains in terms of their home page widgets.
Now there's a couple of more tools you'll want to have open before I set you loose trying to configure
the home page of author pro on your own as a challenge for this video.
First of all inside of the dashboard you'll remember downloading the theme demo files and if I open
there's two items that we want to have open.
And I've got it open right here that shows me that depending on how many widgets I have in each widget
Secondly I've got an image which I've included in the theme demo files which is an image that labels
each of the five different sections of the front page an author pro you can find that if I open up windows
And I got this from the studio press theme setup page which you have access to.
Once you're a studio press member and you own one of their themes and Gen. but I provided you this image
can see what the different sections are.
Let's go through each of these sections and I'll explain how the demo is set up.
And then you can make an attempt at setting your site up the same way.
First of all back in the Wordpress dashboard lets open appearance widgets and let's just take a look
Now this is a featured book widget.
It's very similar to the Genesis featured page widget but it has to do with the custom post type for
books which over here under library as all of our custom post type information.
So if we open up front page one and just pull a featured book widget over into that area it will open
There's a title you can choose which book among all of your custom post type items under books that
Here's where you can see that the author pro Plug-In provide some different thumbnail sizes when you
It creates a 360 by 570 pixel image which is the book cover image and it also creates an 800 by 800
pixel image which you can see is a square image for featured images within the Web site.
These are the smaller thumbnail images for the book.
And here's an 800 by 800 square image and you can see that this one is floated to the right.
In this one's floated to the left.
And then finally here's one floated to the left in the bottom.
Author widget back to the dashboard.
This author pro home page is designed to display featured images either left or right and to use those
square featured content image thumbnails that the plugin creates for us.
You can also choose whether to show the featured text with the image which is that as you'll remember
is the red over here Award-Winning banner whatever you place there is that feature text and then back
Once again you can choose whether to show the book title the show the book author and how much of the
to show the price and whether to show the button and what you want to say.
Let's see if I look at my image that has it labeled from page 2 has 4 of these featured book widgets
across.
the page in one row of four.
And that's what the author pro front page is designed to do.
So back in the dashboard we can see that there's From page one and then the menu the secondary menu
be visible along with the primary menu as well.
Down here we've got a featured post which is from the blog posts area of the Web site.
We have three text widgets here that provide some testimonials or book reviews.
And then we've got one more featured page widget and this one has the about the author page indicated
Your challenge in this video is to configure the author pro home page to look like the sample or the
One more quick review.
This is agenesis featured page widget.
Number two is for Genesis featured book widgets number three is agenesis featured post widget number
testimonial.
And finally front page widget area number five is another Genesys featured page which widget.
Go ahead and customize your own front page in your own students sandbox site Pozza video now and then
Good luck.
OK how do you do I hope you did well with that.
Now I'm back inside of the Wordpress dashboard and I'm in the widgets page still.
And in this front page one section where we were looking at the Genesis author probe featured book widget.
I actually don't want that to be there.
widgets over here to get rid of them and from page 3 I also have extra widgets that I had inside of
Yes.
I'll pull it out of there.
So I have my front page one two three four and five ready to go.
I should also point out that you may if you like open the Customize her and use the widgets area and
I often find there's a little more room to work on the actual appearance widgets editing page without
I really don't need the live preview at the time and I'm going to use the larger widget editing screen
in this example.
So I've got front page one here and you know the one thing I need to do is remove the cut a custom menu
So in front page one I know that I want a Genesys featured page and this is going to be about the author.
Let's see.
This is a page called Best selling author.
Really I want this page here.
Bestselling author I want to show the featured image and I want to use that featured content size which
This one I think is justified to the right or floated right so I'm going to align that image to the
I'm going to show the page title and I'm going to show the page content but only a certain number of
And for my more text I'm just going to put read more and those two little arrows are nice.
So I hit save and now I do like to go back and just check out my work as I make a change in each side.
That looks great.
So I could fit a little bit more text if I like it looks like they use less.
In the example demo but I'm liking what it looks like and the more button is a nice rollover button
And of course it shows this down below.
images or anything like that.
it full width all the way across.
What I want are for book widgets in that front page to area.
front page to open I'll configure these one at a time so for my first one I'll use this book across
I want to show the featured image and I'm going to use this special size for the book covers called
Author pro image for the thumbnail and I'm just going to have no image to.
But I do want to show the featured text in case there's a blue banner on any one of the book covers.
I want to show the book title and the author but I'm going to show no content.
I don't need to show the price but I'll just leave it as View book.
That'll be my nice button so people can click through to the book by clicking the button clicking the
So if I hit save here I can take a look at what I've got.
and so will do is create three more featured book widgets here plus a video and once I've created them
I'll start it up and will take a look.
OK now I've got all four featured book widgets created.
This is my last one you can see that I've got all the same items checked with no content and so I can
You can see here it is from the top there's my featured page my navigation right here and then I've
There's an author page link here because I chose to show the author's name and then you can see my featured
If I click the page itself you can see that my single book pages look good and they have all the appropriate
I go back to the home page.
My next step is going to be at next front page area.
Front page number 3.
So back here in widgets I can close front page to now in front page 3.
featured pages and featured book page in that you can have it be a conditional widget that shows posts
However many of the latest posts and how many you want to offset And so if we just want to show the
latest post in all of the categories we can choose a few different items here we want to show the featured
Again we want to do that special thumbnail size of featured content and let's align this one to the
let's show a standard excerpt this time and read more that looks fine.
my other.
Refresh the page over in my other tab.
All right I've got the latest post is Hello world.
I actually don't want that one.
I look under posts all posts I want.
The behind Iceland Easts to be the latest POSSO this hello world that came with my new WordPress installation
post.
Great.
And now this has a featured image.
But if I click it or click the title you can see that the featured image in this author pro-team doesn't
Just as a featured image on archive pages and the front page.
So if you wanted a an image inside of the content you'd place it in here manually under posts behind
Iceland.
It's back here and hit back again and will go to the home page.
Now there's two more areas I want to fill in so I'll go back to my appearance widgets editing screen
and let's see that was front page 3 in front page 4.
I've got three text widgets now.
Again if I open up my layout document if I do 3 they're going to come across in a nice grid and I use
If I go back into front page 4 in the widget area I'm going to drag text widgets across and really I'm
I'll just label these very quickly and I'll just grab some lips and text here.
Lauren ipsum.
So I have some kind of sample text to go in there.
You may have spent a little bit more time but you didn't have to.
I was going to go get a little text just for the content area.
it to save that learning that I've got with it three
but that same content in there and hit save OK great I'll go back into the home page and take a look.
Two and Three are showing Where's widget one
there's three there's two which one I might not have hit save.
There we go.
I'll close.
And finally in front page five.
Let's bring in another Genesys featured page and this one is the about the author page.
I want this image to go to the left.
Sure show the page title and the content.
There's room for about 300 characters and then read more with the two arrows and I'll see if you can
Customizing Genesis themes and Genesis theme home pages in this lesson.
The layout configuration document and the demo as an example you can see that the author pro plugin
provides us with an easy way of displaying the custom post type it creates.
We've been working on by completing the footer widget areas and the after entry widget area that many
Let's get to it.